Cleanup BBCode (#4600)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/BBCode/en.md

# BBCode

**BBCode** is a [markup langauge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markup_language "Wikipedia") that is used in the osu! forums and, to a larger extent, the vast majority of forums on the Internet. Used to enable rich text formatting, it is made up of tags that surround text to denote formatting, attributes, embedding, etc. etc. It is used across the osu! website in forum posts, signatures, user pages, and beatmap descriptions.

![The forum post editor with its buttons](img/editor.jpg "The edit box in the forums")

## Behaviour

Without any text highlighted, clicking a markup button will create an open and closed set of tags around the text cursor in the post editor; highlighting text before clicking a markup button will surround said text with a set of open and closed tags. 

> Users who wish to combine formatting onto a single section of text can do so by placing these tags inside of one other. However, the order and nesting of these tags **must be respected** when combining: failure to do so will break the post's formatting.

Author: ```suggestion
Users who wish to combine formatting onto a single section of text can do so by placing these tags inside of one another. However, the order and nesting of these tags **must be respected** when combining. Failure to do so will break the post's formatting.
```

A set of correct and incorrect examples of nested tags and their order is described below:

- `[centre][b]text[/b][/centre]` is correct
- `[b][centre]text[/b][/centre]` is incorrect

## Tags

> BBCode, like many other markup languages, formats text using a system of tags, indicated by a pair of brackets (`[]`). These tags are differentiated between a "start tag" and "end tag," which themselves are differentiated via the inclusion of a forward slash (`/`): i.e., end tags contain a forward slash right after the open bracket, while start tags do not.

Author: "the text" doesn't really sound right here; we're not really referring to any specific use case.
```suggestion
BBCode, like many other markup languages, formats text using a system of tags, which is indicated by a pair of square brackets (`[]`). These tags are differentiated between a "start tag" and "end tag," which themselves are differentiated via the inclusion of a forward slash (`/`). Specifically, end tags contain a forward slash right after the open bracket, while start tags do not.
```

It is also important to note that start tags occasionally include equals signs (`=`) inside of them to indicate URLs, font sizes, and other such metadata.

The current BBCode tags supported in the osu! forums are listed and described in detail below.

### Bold

```
[b]text[/b]
```

The `[b]` tag is used to strongly emphasize text through the use of bolding. BBCode bolding does not affect font size.

> Toolbar button: ![Bold button](img/bold.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toolbar button: ![Bold button](img/bold.png "Bold")
```
should add a tooltip to these button images

### Italic

```
[i]text[/i]
```

The `[i]` tag is used to lightly emphasize text by slanting the text forward (i.e., italicizing.)

> Toolbar button: ![Italic button](img/italic.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toolbar button: ![Italic button](img/italic.png "Italic")
```

### Underline

```
[u]text[/u]
```

The `[u]` tag is used to emphasize text by drawing a horizontal line underneath said text (i.e., underlining). The horizontal line that is drawn will be affected by other tags like bolding and italicizing.

### Strikethrough

```
[strike]text[/strike]
```

*Note: "strikethrough" may also be known as "strike".*

The `[strike]` tag is used to indicate a removal of previously included text through the use of a horizontal line that "crosses-out" the text (i.e., a "strikethrough").

> Toolbar button: ![Strike button](img/strike.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toolbar button: ![Strike button](img/strike.png "Strikethrough")
```

### Colour

```
[color=HEXCODE]text[/color]
```

*For a list of all colour names, see [X11 color names](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X11_color_names#Color_name_chart "Wikipedia")*

The `[color]` tag is used to stylise text through various types of web safe colours. The tag uses the HEX code format to specify the colour, although it can also be specified through HTML colour names like "red" or "green." To specify, replace the `HEXCODE` argument with a colour's corresponding HEX code or HTML name.

> The aforementioned argument does not take quotation marks (`"`), and does not have a default colour. If no HEX code or HTML name is specified, or if quotation marks are used, the tag will not be parsed as a BBCode tag.

Author: all of the others with arguments like this one mention the inclusion/exclusion of quotation marks, as well as the original article, so I thought it'd be better to mention it rather than not.

### Font size

```
[size=NUMBER]text[/size]
```

The `[size]` tag is used to stylise text through the use of differing font sizes. Currently, there are four sizes that are supported by the osu! forums: 50, 85, 100, and 150. Which are internally referred to as "tiny," "small," "normal," and "large" respectively.

The `NUMBER` argument does not accept quotation marks, and only accepts one of the four supported sizes. If a number that is not one of the supported four is inputted, the text will revert to the default size.

> Toolbar button: ![Font size options](img/font-size.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toolbar button: ![Font size options](img/font-size.png "Font size")
```

### Box

*Not to be confused with [Spoilerbox](#spoilerbox).*

```
[box=NAME]
text
[/box]
```

The `[box]` tag is used to hide text and images inside of a clickable hyperlink. Upon clicking, the text inside of the spoilerbox will be revealed in similar fashion to a dropdown menu. The text that is hidden is contained between the two tags.

The custom hyperlink text is denoted by the `NAME` argument. Specifying this argument will create a heading text inside the box using that argument, and will adjust the size of the box accordingly. If left unspecified, the `[box]` tag will create a box with no heading text inside by default (which cannot be clicked on). The argument does not use quotations marks (`"`), and will render whitespace.

The tag is most commonly used to hide large walls of text and images that may bloat up the size of a forum post. Most notably in FAQ or [skin](/wiki/Skinning) release posts.

*Note: the BBCode box's toolbar button is called a "spoiler box", but does not create a `[spoilerbox]` tag.*

> Toolbar button: ![Box button](img/spoilerbox.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toolbar button: ![Box button](img/spoilerbox.png "Box")
```

Within the osu! forums, code blocks are most often used to post source code for a [storyboard](/wiki/Storyboards), or in tutorials that require showing the syntax for tags, commands, or source code.

### Centre

```
[centre]text[/centre]
```

The `[centre]` tag is used to align text to the centre of a post. This is most often used for stylistic effect in titles, headers, or poems. If placed inside of or surrounding a `[quote]` tag, the text inside the quote block will be centred, but the stylistic lines and such will not.

### URL

```
[url=LINK]text[/url]
```

The `[url]` tag is used to turn regular text into clickable hyperlinks.

*Note: the use of this tag is not necessary should one wish not to use custom hyperlink text, as the forum editor will automatically link any URLs that it detects.*

To create hyperlinks with the `[url]` tag, users must specify two arguments: the linked text to be displayed, and the specific URL of the website to navigate to. The former must be specified between the start and end tags, and the latter must be specified as the `LINK` argument, without quotation marks (`"`). If no text is specified, the text will default to the name of the URL.

> Toolbar button: ![URL button](img/url.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toolbar button: ![URL button](img/url.png "URL")
```

### Profile

```

> [profile]username[/profile]

Reviewer: `[profile=userid]text[/profile]` works as well. in this case link does not break when the user in question changes their name, and whatever you type as `text` isn't displayed either - replaced by the username instead. you should add this as another usage of the profile tag

```

> *Notice: it is a known issue with the `[profile]` tag that, once used, if the user being linked changes their username, the link will fail. It is recommended that users use the `[URL]` tag instead.*

Reviewer: again, if you mention the userid formula, you won't need this notice

### Lucky

```
[lucky]google search[/lucky]
```

The `[lucky]` tag is an outdated tag that was once used in the osu! forums to link to a website directed from Google's "I'm Feeling Lucky" button using the provided text. Through this method, the website that would have been linked to through this tag would not have been the same for everyone due to the nature of the button itself.

### Formatted lists

```
[list=TYPE]
[*]item 1
[*]item 2
[*]item 3
[/list]
```

The `[list]` tag is used to automatically format numerous types of lists throughout the osu! forums by using an asterisk enclosed in brackets (`[*]`) to indicate a new item in the list (shown above). By default, this will create a plain, bulleted list.

Other list styles can be formatted by specifying the `TYPE` argument as `1`, `a`, `A`, `i`, or `I`, which will format lists as numbered, lettered (lowercase), lettered (uppercase), roman numeral (lowercase), and roman numeral (uppercase) respectively.

*Notice: BBCode-formatted lists can be stacked on top of each other and placed inside one another, although this has been known to cause issues with formatting.*

> Toolbar Buttons: ![List button](img/list.png), ![Numbered list button](img/list-numbered.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toolbar Buttons: ![List button](img/list.png "List") ![Numbered list button](img/list-numbered.png "Numbered list")
```

### Images

```
[img]ADDRESS[/img]
```

The `[img]` tag is used to include online images into osu! forum posts. To use the tag, users must paste in the direct image address (represented by the `ADDRESS` argument above) sourced from a website. Local file paths (e.g. `C:\Users\Name\Pictures\image.jpg`) **will not work**.

> *Notice: a website URL is **not** the same as an image address.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Notice: A website URL is **not** the same as an image address.*
```

In order to obtain an image address, one must navigate to the website it is sourced on, hover their mouse over the image, right-click on the image, and select `Copy image address`. After this point, the address should be copied and ready to paste in between the tags.

Although images can be sourced from anywhere, osu! recommends that users upload images to reputable image sharing sites like [Imgur](https://imgur.com "Imgur"), as some websites do not appreciate direct links to their images (otherwise known as "hotlinks").

> Toolbar Button: ![Image button](img/image.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toolbar Button: ![Image button](img/image.png "Image")
```

### YouTube

```
[youtube]VIDEO_ID[/youtube]
```

The `[youtube]` tag is used to embed a [YouTube](https://youtube.com "YouTube") video into forum posts. The tag requires the user to input only the video ID—**not** the whole URL—between the two tags (represented by the `VIDEO_ID` argument above).

A YouTube video's video ID is located in the URL of the video, and is the string of 11 characters *directly after* the `?=`.

### Audio

```
[audio]URL[/audio]
```

> The `[audio]` tag is used to embed an [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5 "Wikipedia") audio player from an online audio source. Audio files can be sourced from anywhere, as long as the file exists from a given URL; local file paths (e.g., `C:\Users\Name\Music\audio.mp3`) **will not work**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `[audio]` tag is used to embed an [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5 "Wikipedia") audio player from an online audio source. Audio files can be sourced from anywhere, as long as the file exists from a given URL. Local file paths (e.g., `C:\Users\Name\Music\audio.mp3`) **will not work**.
```

> *Caution: Please beware that not all file sharing services appreciate the ripping of their audio files, as there is concern of music piracy. osu! is not responsible for any copyright issues that users may encounter in doing this.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Caution: Please beware that not all file-sharing services appreciate the ripping of their audio files, due to the music piracy concerns. osu! is not responsible for any copyright issues that users may encounter in that regard.*
```

To embed audio files through this method, users must paste it's source URL (e.g., `https://www.example.com/example.mp3`) between the two `[audio]` tags.

<!-- Example online audio file URL for wiki editors: https://actions.google.com/sounds/v1/alarms/digital_watch_alarm_long.ogg -->

### Heading (v1)

```
[heading]text[/heading]
```

The `[heading]` tag is used to format text into big, pink headers. The tag does not support multi-leveled headers, and cannot be specifically linked to.

> Toolbar Button: ![Heading button](img/heading.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toolbar Button: ![Heading button](img/heading.png "Heading")
```

### Heading (v2)

```
[text]
```

The *Heading (v2)* tag is an outdated tag that was once used in the osu! forums to format text into a fancier-looking, purple heading with a horizontal line. The tag only worked in the beatmaps forum, and only appeared after posting (not in preview). It had no button when it was in service, and was denoted by an open and closed bracket (no start and end tags).

### Notice

```
[notice]
text
[/notice]
```

The `[notice]` tag is used to place paragraphs into a large, outlined box with a dark body colour. The button is primarily used to denote notices or warnings regarding a certain subject in forum posts.

## Trivia

> - This wiki article was adapted from a forum post: [HOW TO: Forum BBCodes](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/445599) by user [Stefan](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/626907) (formerly known as TheNutritiousGuy)
> - There used to be a bug on the osu! forums that allowed users to make text transparent by using the [colour tag](#colour) and typing "transparent" after the equals sign (`=`)
>   - As of now, text will revert back to the default white when this happens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This wiki article was adapted from a forum post: [HOW TO: Forum BBCodes](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/445599) authored by [Stefan](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/626907) (formerly known as TheNutritiousGuy).
- There used to be a bug that allowed users to make the text transparent by using the [colour tag](#colour) and typing "transparent" after the equals sign (`=`).
  - As of now, the text will revert back to the default white when this happens.
```

# BBCode

**BBCode** is a [markup langauge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markup_language "Wikipedia") that is used in the osu! forums and, to a larger extent, the vast majority of forums on the Internet. Used to enable rich text formatting, it is made up of tags that surround text to denote formatting, attributes, embedding, etc. It is used in various places across the osu! website, such as forum posts, signatures, user pages, and beatmap descriptions.

![The forum post editor with its buttons](img/editor.jpg "The edit box in the forums")

## Behaviour

Clicking a markup button without highlighting any text will create an open and closed set of tags around the text cursor in the post editor. Highlighting the text before clicking a markup button will surround said text with a set of open and closed tags. 

> Users who wish to combine formatting onto a single section of text can do so by placing these tags inside of one another. However, the order and nesting of these tags **must be respected** when combining. Failure to do so will break the formatting.

Author: "Multiple formatting" sounds a little awkward to me

> Users who wish to combine formatting onto a single section of text can do so by placing these tags inside of one another. However, the order and nesting of these tags **must be respected** when combining. Failure to do so will break the formatting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users, who wish to combine formatting onto a single section of text, can do so by placing BBCode tags inside of one another. However, the order and nesting of these tags **must be respected** when combining. Failure to do so will break the formatting.
```
might be fine this way ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

A set of correct and incorrect examples of nested tags and their order is described below:

- `[centre][b]text[/b][/centre]` is correct
- `[b][centre]text[/b][/centre]` is incorrect

## Tags

> BBCode, like many other markup languages, formats text using a system of tags, which is indicated by a pair of square brackets (`[]`). These tags are differentiated between a "start tag" and "end tag," which themselves are differentiated via the inclusion of a forward slash (`/`). Specifically, end tags contain a forward slash right after the open bracket, while start tags do not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BBCode, like many other markup languages, formats text using a system of tags, which is indicated by a pair of square brackets (`[]`). These tags are divided into "opening" and "closing" tags, which are differentiated via the inclusion of a forward slash (`/`). Specifically, closing tags contain a forward slash right after the opening bracket, while opening tags do not.
```

It is also important to note that start tags occasionally include equals signs (`=`) inside to indicate URLs, font sizes, and other such elements.

> The current BBCode tags supported in the osu! forums are listed and described in detail below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BBCode tags, which are supported in the osu! forums, are listed and described in detail below.
```

## Behaviour

Clicking a markup button without highlighting any text will create a set of open and closed tags around the text cursor in the post editor. Highlighting the text before clicking a markup button will surround said text with the tags. 

Users, who wish to combine formatting onto a single section of text, can do so by placing BBCode tags inside of one another. However, the order and nesting of these tags **must be respected** when combining. Failure to do so will break the formatting.

A set of correct and incorrect usages of nested tags is described below:

- `[centre][b]text[/b][/centre]` is correct
- `[b][centre]text[/b][/centre]` is incorrect

## Tags

BBCode, like many other markup languages, formats text using a system of tags, which is indicated by a pair of square brackets (`[]`). These tags are divided into "opening" and "closing" tags, which are differentiated via the inclusion of a forward slash (`/`). Specifically, closing tags contain a forward slash right after the opening bracket, while open tags do not.

It is also important to note that open tags occasionally include equals signs (`=`) inside to indicate URLs, font sizes, and other such elements.

> BBCode tags, which are supported in the osu! forums, are listed and described in detail below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BBCode tags, which are supported on the osu! website, are listed and described in detail below.
```

### Bold

```
[b]text[/b]
```

> The `[b]` tag is used to strongly emphasize text through the use of bolding. BBCode bolding does not affect font size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `[b]` tag is used to strongly emphasize text through the use of bolding. BBCode bolding does not affect the font size.
```

Toolbar button: ![Bold button](img/bold.png "Bold")

### Italic

```
[i]text[/i]
```

> The `[i]` tag is used to lightly emphasize text by slanting the text forward (i.e., italicizing.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `[i]` tag is used to lightly emphasize text by slanting the text forward (i.e. italicizing).
```

Toolbar button: ![Italic button](img/italic.png "Italic")

### Underline

```
[u]text[/u]
```

> The `[u]` tag is used to emphasize text by drawing a horizontal line underneath said text (i.e., underlining). The horizontal line that is drawn will be affected by other tags like bolding and italicizing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `[u]` tag is used to emphasize text by drawing a horizontal line underneath said text (i.e. underlining). The horizontal line that is drawn will be affected by other tags like bolding and italicizing.
```

### Strikethrough

```
[strike]text[/strike]
```

*Note: "strikethrough" may also be known as "strike".*

> The `[strike]` tag is used to indicate a removal of previously included text through the use of a horizontal line that "crosses-out" the text (i.e., a "strikethrough").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `[strike]` tag is used to indicate a removal of previously included text through the use of a horizontal line that "crosses out" the text (i.e. a "strikethrough").
```

Toolbar button: ![Strike button](img/strike.png "Strikethrough")

### Colour

```
[color=HEXCODE]text[/color]
```

*For a list of all colour names, see [X11 color names](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X11_color_names#Color_name_chart "Wikipedia")*

> The `[color]` tag is used to stylise text through various types of web-safe colours. The tag uses the [HEX code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_colors#Hex_triplet "Wikipedia") format to specify the colour, although it can also be specified through HTML colour names like "red" or "green." To specify, replace the `HEXCODE` argument with a colour's corresponding HEX code or HTML name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `[color]` tag is used to stylise text through various types of web-safe colours. The tag uses the [HEX code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_colors#Hex_triplet "Wikipedia") format to specify the colour, although it can also be specified through HTML colour names like "red" or "green". To specify, replace the `HEXCODE` argument with a colour's corresponding HEX code or HTML name.
```

Author: American grammar ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

> The aforementioned argument does not take quotation marks (`"`), and does not have a default colour. If no HEX code or HTML name is specified, or if quotation marks are used, the tag will not be parsed as a BBCode tag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The aforementioned argument does not take quotation marks (`"`), and does not have a default colour. If no argument is specified, or if quotation marks are used, the tag will not be parsed as a BBCode tag.
```

### Font size

```
[size=NUMBER]text[/size]
```

> The `[size]` tag is used to stylise text through the use of differing font sizes. Currently, there are four sizes that are supported by the osu! forums: 50, 85, 100, and 150. Which are internally referred to as "tiny," "small," "normal," and "large" respectively.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `[size]` tag is used to stylise text through the use of differing font sizes. Currently, there are four sizes that are supported by the osu! forums: 50, 85, 100, and 150. The sizes are referred to as "tiny," "small," "normal," and "large" respectively.
```

> The `[size]` tag is used to stylise text through the use of differing font sizes. Currently, there are four sizes that are supported by the osu! forums: 50, 85, 100, and 150. The sizes are internally referred to as "tiny," "small," "normal," and "large" respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `[size]` tag is used to stylise text through the use of differing font sizes. Currently, there are four sizes that are supported by the osu! website: 50, 85, 100, and 150. The sizes are internally referred to as "tiny", "small", "normal", and "large" respectively.
```

> The `[size]` tag is used to stylise text through the use of differing font sizes. Currently, there are four sizes that are supported by the osu! forums: 50, 85, 100, and 150. The sizes are internally referred to as "tiny," "small," "normal," and "large" respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
The `[size]` tag is used to stylise text through the use of differing font sizes. Currently, there are four sizes that are supported by the osu! website: 50, 85, 100, and 150. The sizes are internally referred to as "tiny," "small," "normal," and "large" respectively.
```

> The `NUMBER` argument does not accept quotation marks, and only accepts one of the four supported sizes. If a number that is not one of the supported four is inputted, the text will revert to the default size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `NUMBER` argument does not accept quotation marks, and only accepts one of the four supported sizes. If a number, that is not one of the supported four, is inputted, the text will revert to the default size.
```

### Box

*Not to be confused with [Spoilerbox](#spoilerbox).*

```
[box=NAME]
text
[/box]
```

The `[box]` tag is used to hide text and images inside of a clickable hyperlink. Upon clicking, the contents inside will be revealed in a similar fashion to a dropdown menu.

The custom hyperlink text is denoted by the `NAME` argument. Specifying this argument will create a heading text inside the box using that argument, and will adjust the size of the box accordingly. If left unspecified, the `[box]` tag will create a box with no heading text inside by default (which cannot be clicked on). The argument does not use quotations marks (`"`), and will render whitespace.

The tag is most commonly used to hide large walls of text and images that may bloat up the size of a forum post. Most notably in FAQ or [skin](/wiki/Skinning) release posts.

*Note: the BBCode box's toolbar button is called a "spoiler box", but does not create a `[spoilerbox]` tag.*

Toolbar button: ![Box button](img/spoilerbox.png "Box")

#### Spoilerbox

> 

Reviewer 2: might be useful to include the syntax i think

> #### Spoilerbox
> 
> A *spoilerbox* is a special type of BBCode box that does not have a specifiable `NAME` argument. The name of a spoilerbox is always shown as `SPOILER`. Spoilerboxes have their own tag (`[spoilerbox]`) but are functionally identical to BBCode [boxes](#box).

Author: ```suggestion
#### Spoilerbox

```
[spoilerbox]text[/spoilerbox]
```

A *spoilerbox* is a special type of BBCode box that does not have a specifiable `NAME` argument. The name of a spoilerbox is always shown as `SPOILER`. Spoilerboxes have their own tag (`[spoilerbox]`) but are functionally identical to BBCode [boxes](#box).
```

### Quote

```
[quote="NAME"]
text
[/quote]
```

The `[quote]` tag is used to stylistically format long quotations (a.k.a. "block quotes") through the use of indenting, colouring, bolding, and separating the text via a pink vertical line. The actual contents of the quote are placed between the open and closed tags, while the `NAME` argument specifies the author of the quote (although this is optional). The text inside the quotes will render whitespace and line breaks.

*Notice: The `NAME` argument must be enclosed in quotation marks (`"`).*

> Long quotations are typically used in more formal writings in place of in-line quotations when said quotation is three or more lines long. Within the osu! forums, however, they are most commonly used to reply to another user's comment, which can be done automatically through the `Quote reply` button located in the top-left of the desired comment (shown below). However, this button will **only appear if the cursor is nearby**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Long quotations are typically used in more formal writings in place of in-line quotations when said quotation is three or more lines long. Within the osu! forums, however, they are most commonly used to reply to another user's comment, which can be done automatically through the `Quote reply` button located in the top-right of the desired comment (shown below). However, this button will **only appear if the cursor is nearby**.
```

![Quote reply button](img/quotereply.png)

### Code block

```
[code]
text
[/code]
```

> The `[code]` tag is used to create *preformatted code blocks* (a.k.a. *preformatted text*). In the osu! forums, the `[code]` tag will format text in a monospace font inside of a semi-transparent gray box. Formatting text inside of a code block will tell the editor to treat the text between those tags literally, thus preventing the conversion of any tags or source code into something else.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `[code]` tag is used to create *preformatted code blocks* (a.k.a. *preformatted text*). On the osu! website, the `[code]` tag will format text in a monospace font inside of a semi-transparent gray box. Formatting text inside of a code block will tell the editor to treat the text between those tags literally, thus preventing the conversion of any tags or source code into something else.
```

Within the osu! forums, code blocks are most often used to post source code for a [storyboard](/wiki/Storyboards), or in tutorials that require showing the syntax for tags, commands, or source code.

### Centre

```
[centre]text[/centre]
```

> The `[centre]` tag is used to align text to the centre of a post. This is most often used for stylistic effect in titles, headers, or poems. If placed inside of or surrounding a `[quote]` tag, the text inside the quote block will be centred, but the stylistic lines and such will not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `[centre]` tag is used to align text to the centre of a box. This is most often used for stylistic effect in titles, headers, or poems. If placed inside of or surrounding a `[quote]` tag, the text inside the quote block will be centred, but the stylistic lines and such will not.
```

### URL

```
[url=LINK]text[/url]
```

The `[url]` tag is used to turn regular text into clickable hyperlinks.

> *Note: Using this tag is not necessary should one wish not to use custom hyperlink text, as the forum editor parses proper URLs as links automatically.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Note: Using this tag is not necessary should one wish not to use custom hyperlink text, as the forum editor parses proper URLs into links automatically.*
```

To create hyperlinks with the `[url]` tag, users must specify two arguments: the linked text to be displayed, and the specific URL of the website to navigate to. The former must be specified between the open and closed tags, and the latter must be specified as the `LINK` argument, without quotation marks (`"`). If no text is specified, the text will default to the name of the URL.

Toolbar button: ![URL button](img/url.png "URL")

### Profile

```
[profile=userid]username[/profile]
```

The `[profile]` tag is used to link to a user's osu! profile page by using their username or user ID. Usage of the `[profile]` tag differs from the use of `[url]` tag in that the `[profile]` tag displays a user card when hovering over the link that is created by the tag.

> *Note: User IDs are the string of numbers that directly follow the `/users/` in the URL of an osu! profile page.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Note: The user ID is a string of numbers that directly follow the `/users/` in the URL of an osu! profile page.*
```

> *Note: It is important to mention that the resulting outcome of this tag is functionally identical to that of using the [`[URL]`](#url) tag to link to the URL of an osu! profile page.*

Reviewer 3: This is not true, using the profile tag shows a user card when hovering over the link. Links do not.

[*]item 3
[/list]
```

The `[list]` tag is used to automatically format numerous types of lists throughout the osu! forums by using an asterisk enclosed in brackets (`[*]`) to indicate a new item in the list (shown above). By default, this will create a plain, bulleted list.

Other list styles can be formatted by specifying the `TYPE` argument as `1`, `a`, `A`, `i`, or `I`, which will format lists as numbered, lettered (lowercase), lettered (uppercase), roman numeral (lowercase), and roman numeral (uppercase) respectively.

*Notice: BBCode-formatted lists can be stacked on top of each other and placed inside one another, although this has been known to cause issues with formatting.*

Toolbar Buttons: ![List button](img/list.png "List") ![Numbered list button](img/list-numbered.png "Numbered list")

### Images

```
[img]ADDRESS[/img]
```

The `[img]` tag is used to include online images into osu! forum posts. To use the tag, users must paste in the direct image address (represented by the `ADDRESS` argument above) sourced from a website. Local file paths (e.g. `C:\Users\Name\Pictures\image.jpg`) **will not work**.

*Notice: A website URL is **not** the same as an image address.*

> In order to obtain an image address, one must navigate to the website it is sourced on, hover their mouse over the image, right-click on the image, and select `Copy image address`. After this point, the address should be copied and ready to paste in between the tags.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to obtain an image address, one must navigate to the website it is sourced on, hover their mouse over the image, right-click on the image, and select `Copy image address`. Then, the address should be copied and pasted in between the tags.
```

Although images can be sourced from anywhere, osu! recommends that users upload images to reputable image sharing sites like [Imgur](https://imgur.com "Imgur"), as some websites do not appreciate direct links to their images (otherwise known as "hotlinks").

> Toolbar Button: ![Image button](img/image.png "Image")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Toolbar button: ![Image button](img/image.png "Image")
```

### YouTube

```
[youtube]VIDEO_ID[/youtube]
```

> The `[youtube]` tag is used to embed a [YouTube](https://youtube.com "YouTube") video into forum posts. The tag requires the user to input only the video ID—**not** the whole URL—between the two tags (represented by the `VIDEO_ID` argument above).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `[youtube]` tag is used to embed a [YouTube](https://youtube.com "YouTube") video on the website. The tag requires the user to input only the video ID  (**not** the entire URL) between the two tags (represented by the `VIDEO_ID` argument above).
```

> A YouTube video's video ID is located in the URL of the video, and is the string of 11 characters *directly after* the `?=`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A YouTube video's ID is located in the URL of the video, and is the string of 11 characters *directly after* the `v=`.
```

### Audio

```
[audio]URL[/audio]
```

The `[audio]` tag is used to embed an [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5 "Wikipedia") audio player from an online audio source. Audio files can be sourced from anywhere, as long as the file exists from a given URL. Local file paths (e.g., `C:\Users\Name\Music\audio.mp3`) **will not work**.

*Caution: Please beware that not all file-sharing services appreciate the ripping of their audio files, due to the music piracy concerns. osu! is not responsible for any copyright issues that users may encounter in that regard.*

> To embed audio files through this method, users must paste it's source URL (e.g., `https://www.example.com/example.mp3`) between the two `[audio]` tags.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To embed audio files through this method, users must paste its source URL (e.g. `https://www.example.com/example.mp3`) between the two `[audio]` tags.
```

<!-- Example online audio file URL for wiki editors: https://actions.google.com/sounds/v1/alarms/digital_watch_alarm_long.ogg -->

### Heading (v1)

```
[heading]text[/heading]
```

The `[heading]` tag is used to format text into big, pink headers. The tag does not support multi-leveled headers, and cannot be specifically linked to.

> Toolbar Button: ![Heading button](img/heading.png "Heading")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Toolbar button: ![Heading button](img/heading.png "Heading")
```

### Notice

```
[notice]
text
[/notice]
```

> The `[notice]` tag is used to place paragraphs into a large, outlined box with a dark body colour. The button is primarily used to denote notices or warnings regarding a certain subject in forum posts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `[notice]` tag is used to place paragraphs into a large, outlined box with a dark body colour. The button is primarily used to denote notices or warnings regarding a certain subject on the website.
```
